README.md, before:

# plover-python-dictionary-lib
Library for writing Python dictionary for Plover,
and generating JSON dictionary file from Python dictionary.

### Installation

This package is available on 
[PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/plover-python-dictionary-lib/).
To install it, run the command

```bash
pip install plover-python-dictionary-lib
```

This is required to use/run the Python dictionaries that use this library.

### Example & Usage
#### Imports And Setup

* The example code assumes you have run the code below
```python
from plover.system import english_stenotype as e
from plover_python_dictionary_lib import get_context_from_system
context=get_context_from_system(e)
s=context.SingleDictionary
stroke=context.stroke
translation=context.translation
```

#### Dictionary Operations
* The | operator
	* Compute the union of two dictionaries together (basically updating one dictionary with another as like a normal python dictionary)
```python
you = s({"KPWR": "you"})
they = s({"TWH": "they"})
dict1 = you | they
dict1.print_items()
# {"KPWR": "you", "TWH": "they"}
```
* The * operator
	* Compute the Cartesian product of two dictionaries such that:
		* Adjacent strokes are merged as according to steno order
		* Adjacent translations are merged using the + operator
	* Example:
```python
dict1 = s({
		"KPWR": "you",
		"TWH": "they"
	})
dict2 = s({
		"-R": " are"
	})
dict = dict1 * dict2
dict.print_items()
# {"KPWR-R": "you are", "TWH-R": "they are"}
```
#### Named Dictionaries
- Sometimes you want to have custom behavior for your translations
- For example applying mods on some characters
```python
def applyMods(mods, characters):
	for mod in mods:
		characters = f"{mod}({characters})"
	return characters
mods = s({"-R": ["shift"], "": []}).named("mods") 
characters = s({"A": "a"}).named("characters")
dict = (mods * characters).map(applyMods)
dict.print_items()
# {"AR": "shift(a)", "A": "a"}
```
#### Extra Notes
* The most common use case would be a Cartesian product of various dictionaries.
* You can read
	* [`00_two_letter_fingerspelling_example` example dictionary file](https://github.com/user202729/plover-python-dictionary-lib/blob/main/example/00_two_letter_fingerspelling_example.py) (GitHub link) for an example (this one is the most well-documented example file, with common patterns and explanation),
	* the rest of the files in the [`example/` folder](https://github.com/user202729/plover-python-dictionary-lib/tree/main/example),
	* and the documentation (as Python docstrings) in the source code,
* Useful resources: [Frequently used dictionary components](https://github.com/user202729/plover-python-dictionary-lib/wiki/Frequently-used-dictionary-components) *(feel free to edit the wiki)*

### Generate JSON

The Python dictionary must be written with this plugin.

Call `.print_items()` on the main `Dictionary` object. (see also the example dictionaries above)

**Note**: because of [an incompatibility between Plover and the `plover_stroke` library](https://github.com/benoit-pierre/plover_stroke/issues/1),
sometimes the JSON dictionary may not work in Plover.

For example: if this code
is included at the end of the Python dictionary file named `dictionary.py`

```python
if __name__=="__main__":
	dictionary.print_items()
```

(assuming that the main dictionary object is named `dictionary`) then running `python dictionary.py`
will print the dictionary as JSON to the standard output.

Commit message:

Update readme for some information how to run in correct Python environment

README.md, after:

# plover-python-dictionary-lib
Library for writing Python dictionary for Plover,
and generating JSON dictionary file from Python dictionary.

### Installation

This package is available on 
[PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/plover-python-dictionary-lib/).
To install it, run the command

```bash
pip install plover-python-dictionary-lib
```

This is required to use/run the Python dictionaries that use this library.

### Example & Usage
#### Imports And Setup

* The example code assumes you have run the code below
```python
from plover.system import english_stenotype as e
from plover_python_dictionary_lib import get_context_from_system
context=get_context_from_system(e)
s=context.SingleDictionary
stroke=context.stroke
translation=context.translation
```

#### Dictionary Operations
* The | operator
	* Compute the union of two dictionaries together (basically updating one dictionary with another as like a normal python dictionary)
```python
you = s({"KPWR": "you"})
they = s({"TWH": "they"})
dict1 = you | they
dict1.print_items()
# {"KPWR": "you", "TWH": "they"}
```
* The * operator
	* Compute the Cartesian product of two dictionaries such that:
		* Adjacent strokes are merged as according to steno order
		* Adjacent translations are merged using the + operator
	* Example:
```python
dict1 = s({
		"KPWR": "you",
		"TWH": "they"
	})
dict2 = s({
		"-R": " are"
	})
dict = dict1 * dict2
dict.print_items()
# {"KPWR-R": "you are", "TWH-R": "they are"}
```
#### Named Dictionaries
- Sometimes you want to have custom behavior for your translations
- For example applying mods on some characters
```python
def applyMods(mods, characters):
	for mod in mods:
		characters = f"{mod}({characters})"
	return characters
mods = s({"-R": ["shift"], "": []}).named("mods") 
characters = s({"A": "a"}).named("characters")
dict = (mods * characters).map(applyMods)
dict.print_items()
# {"AR": "shift(a)", "A": "a"}
```
#### Extra Notes
* The most common use case would be a Cartesian product of various dictionaries.
* You can read
	* [`00_two_letter_fingerspelling_example` example dictionary file](https://github.com/user202729/plover-python-dictionary-lib/blob/main/example/00_two_letter_fingerspelling_example.py) (GitHub link) for an example (this one is the most well-documented example file, with common patterns and explanation),
	* the rest of the files in the [`example/` folder](https://github.com/user202729/plover-python-dictionary-lib/tree/main/example),
	* and the documentation (as Python docstrings) in the source code,
* Useful resources: [Frequently used dictionary components](https://github.com/user202729/plover-python-dictionary-lib/wiki/Frequently-used-dictionary-components) *(feel free to edit the wiki)*

### Generate JSON

The Python dictionary must be written with this plugin.

Call `.print_items()` on the main `Dictionary` object. (see also the example dictionaries above)


For example: if this code
is included at the end of the Python dictionary file named `dictionary.py`

```python
if __name__=="__main__":
	dictionary.print_items()
```

(assuming that the main dictionary object is named `dictionary`) then running `python dictionary.py`
will print the dictionary as JSON to the standard output.

**Note**: If you get the error:
```
ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'plover'
```
it means Plover was installed in a different Python *environment* from the environment that you ran the script in.

It depends on the operating-system and specific installation method how to run it in the correct environment. See https://github.com/user202729/plover-python-dictionary-lib/issues/4 for an example.

**Note** (fixed bug, affects old version only): because of [an incompatibility between Plover and the `plover_stroke` library](https://github.com/benoit-pierre/plover_stroke/issues/1),
sometimes the JSON dictionary may not work in Plover.
